1. Problem: cost of handling of an operation is linear in terms of the layers of handlers being skipped.

handle { handle { ... handle {op2; ....} with h_n } ... with h2 } with h1

2. Idea:

When h1 and h2 are "modular", and h2 can forward operations of h1, then we can define a new handler h2 |> h1 such that

  handle { handle p with h2 } with h1   =   handle p with (h2 |> h1)

The carrier of h2 |> h1 is (M1 . M2).

If we can do the fusion for all the layers, then we have some h:
  such that

  handle { handle { ... handle {...} with h_n } ... with h2 } with h1 
    =
  handle { ... } with h

Then we can represent h as an array, giving us O(1)-time access to each operation.

3. Now we allow handlers to generate effects as well. And we can have a toolbox of "handler combinators" implementing different interaction of handlers.

  h2 |> h1     (called fuse in effective)
  h2 \\ h1    (called pipe in effective) where h1 only 'intercepts' the effects generated by h2 but it doesn't handle the operations from the program
  ...

# Discussion

1.

> handle { let x = handle {p1} with h in p2 } with h

may be possibly written as

> handle { let x = sc {p1} in p2 } with h'

Can this be automated?

2.

> map :: forall eff. (a -> b ! eff) -> [a] -> [b] ! eff

The design of handler combinators are orthogonal to type-and-effect systems of effectful programs.

We should be able to write those handler combinators in languages like MET too.

3. masking

4. escaping

handle { handle { op1; op2; ... } with h1 } with h2  : (() -> Int ! <op2>) ! <>


handle { op1; op2; ... } with h1 |> h2  : (() -> Int ! <op2>) ! <>